Interview with our
Chief Executive Officer

Robert Swaak looks back and ahead after five years at
the helm of ABN AMRO. He explains why it’s crucial for
the bank to stay close to its clients and discusses its
performance in 2024. “We are closing out a successful
year, in which we delivered on all three pillars of our
strategy.”

In 2024, ABN AMRO launched its new brand promise
‘For every new beginning’. How is the bank bringing
this promise to life?

“First of all, I’m happy that we have been able to focus
the bank in such a way that we are now able to
articulate a brand promise. We are a personal bank
in the digital age, offering convenience in daily banking
and expertise at moments that matter. Whether it’s
a new home, starting a business or international
expansion, retirement or a new career, we are here to
help clients move forward. This requires us to stay close
to our clients and operate as one bank. We must infuse
the expertise we have in wealth management and
corporate banking into all our client relationships. That’s
how we add value to every new beginning.
Convenience in daily banking also means that we need
to be easily accessible to clients. Once clients have
been in touch with us, our Net Promoter Scores, which
show their willingness to recommend the bank, are
high. Personal & Business Banking started out at low
levels and we are slowly seeing improvements in our
scores. We have almost doubled our pool of Help with
Banking advisers to support clients who have trouble
using banking services. Another way to improve
the customer experience is generative AI. It already
helps train our staff, summarises calls with clients and
allows us to find answers to their questions faster, so we
can fully focus on the conversations.”

What kind of year was 2024 for ABN AMRO and
the world around us?

“We live in a world that is evolving at enormous speed.
Not only because of the US President’s measures and
decrees – other parts of the world are also seeing
massive shifts. The upside is that Europe has a lot to
offer in this changing world, but it must stick to
implementing its plans and improve its competitiveness.
The same goes for ABN AMRO. We have to focus on
what we can do ourselves to improve our position. On
that note, I’m glad to say that it was a year of execution
and delivery for the bank. From a commercial
perspective, we are delivering in the growth segments
we have identified. We did so in mortgages, where our
share of new production increased from 16% to 19%
in 2024 and in corporate banking, where we continued
to grow throughout the year in our transition themes:
new energies, digital and mobility. We also expanded
our wealth management practice and began to build
traction in the affluent segment. Finally, I am very
pleased with our fee income growth, which came in
above our 3-5% growth ambition. These are all clear
signs that we are adding value for our clients.”

A strong performance despite the geopolitical
turmoil, what does that say about the bank?

“It shows our investors that the bank’s strategy is paying
off. Our decision in 2020 to focus on Northwest Europe
makes our exposure more manageable. We were able
to contain our cost of risk, benefiting from our
diversified sectoral portfolio. As a result, our
impairments were extremely limited. Finally, we
benefited from carefully managing our interest-rate risk
as central bank rates came down. Our Dutch mortgage
business is a great example of our ability to harness
market developments to add value for clients. Any time
the market moves, we are the bank that is able to
process huge volumes. We have relevant brands that
can pick up different segments and our flexible pricing
allows us to quickly adjust our offering if needed.”

What areas still need a lot of attention?

“As we grow the bank, we must continue to be mindful
of costs and our capital efficiency. In 2024, we
delivered on our cost guidance. We did so while also
future-proofing the bank by investing in our people and
our IT capability. Still, regulatory remediation
programmes account for a large part of our costs as we
invest to meet the required standards. We need to
remain highly cost-disciplined as we continue to
simplify our credit risk models and improve our data
capabilities. Both can help bring down our risk-weighted assets (RWAs), which determine how much
money the bank needs to set aside for potential losses,
and make our capital use more efficient.”

The bank agreed to acquire Hauck Aufhäuser Lampe.
Why is this a good fit?

“HAL is a top-notch German bank that targets a client
segment we have prioritised. The acquisition will make
us one of the top three private banks in Germany. It also
fits with our strategy to grow the bank in a
capital-efficient way across Northwest Europe. HAL will
add to our fee income, which is a source of income that
doesn’t put too much pressure on ABN AMRO’s capital.
We also decided to sell our stake in the French life
insurance joint venture Neuflize Vie and wind down
non-strategic client portfolios in our Asset Based
Finance business in the UK and Germany. If
the performance of a part of the bank is not sufficiently
strong or not strategically accretive, we need to act.
That helps us to free up capital that we can reinvest in
growth segments.”

How did the bank move forward on sustainability
in 2024?

“There are a whole host of things I’m excited about. First
of all, we aim to have financed at least EUR 10 billion in
renewable energy by 2030. This is up from a previous
target of at least EUR 4 billion by 2025, which was
achieved two years early. We continued to grow in our
transition themes and used our expertise to help clients
become more sustainable. We aim to play a role in
halting and reversing biodiversity loss by 2030, as we
set out in our Nature Statement published last year.
To achieve that, we have committed to using and
expanding our influence as a bank to reduce negative
impact and enhance our positive impact on nature. Also
in 2024, we progressed on our climate strategy, setting
more targets for our portfolios. But we need to continue
to improve the way we use data to advance our
sustainability objectives and how we report on them.
Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our
age and it is vital that we become a more sustainable
society in a responsible and fair way. It should be a just
transition that does not leave whole groups behind.”

How do you see the future of the bank?

“There is a lot that we still need to do better, which
includes simplifying the bank. But if I look at
the direction we are heading, leveraging the strength
of our wealth management business, the potential
of the corporate bank and the success of our retail
offering, I feel really good about the future. On that
note, I am very pleased with the intended nomination
of Marguerite Bérard as my successor. I am confident
that she will successfully lead the bank forward,
building on our strong foundations.”

What would you say to the bank’s people, and what
impressed you in their work?

“We have navigated the bank through a pandemic,
an energy crisis, two recessions and a destabilising
global environment while transforming the bank - it has
been almost a perfect storm, if you will. Our people
have worked through another year of change and
uncertainty, while their engagement has continued
to be very high. Yes, there’s still a lot of work to be
done, but let’s also look at everything we have
accomplished, together with all our colleagues around
the world who stand ready every day. I am extremely
proud of them. Their commitment and expertise gives
me confidence in the continued success of the bank.”
