1. Corporate Overview
1.1. ABOUT CGI

Founded in 1976 and headquartered in Montréal, Canada, CGI is a leading IT and business consulting services firm with
approximately 90,250 consultants and professionals worldwide. We use the power of technology to help clients accelerate
their holistic digital transformation.

CGI has a people-centered culture, operating where our clients live and work to build trusted relationships and to advance our
shared communities. Our consultants and professionals are committed to providing actionable insights that help clients
achieve their business outcomes. CGI’s global delivery centers complement our proximity-based teams, offering clients added
options that deliver scale, innovation and delivery excellence in every engagement.

End-to-end services and solutions

CGI delivers end-to-end services that help clients achieve the highest returns on their digital investments. We call this ROI-led
digitization. Our insights-driven end-to-end services and solutions work together to help clients design, implement, run and
operate the technology critical to achieving their business strategies. Our portfolio encompasses:

i. Business and strategic IT consulting, and systems integration services: CGI helps clients drive sustainable
value in critical consulting areas, including strategy, organization and change management, core operations and
technology. Within each of these areas, our consultants also deliver a broad range of business offerings to address
client executives' priorities, including designing and advancing strategies for the responsible use of artificial
intelligence (AI), sustainable supply chain management, environmental, social and governance (ESG), mergers and
acquisitions, and more. In the area of systems integration, we help clients accelerate the enterprise modernization
of their legacy systems and adopt new technologies to drive innovation and deliver real-time and insight-driven
customer and citizen services.

ii. Managed IT and business process services: Working as an extension of our clients’ organizations, we take on
full or partial responsibility for managing their IT functions, freeing them up to focus on their strategic business
direction. Our services enable clients to reinvest, alongside CGI, in the successful execution of their digital
transformation roadmaps. We help them increase agility, scalability and resilience; deliver operational efficiencies,
innovations and reduced costs; and embed security and data privacy controls. Typical services include: application
development, modernization and maintenance; holistic enterprise digitization, automation, hybrid and cloud
management; and business process services.

iii. Intellectual property (IP) business solutions: CGI's portfolio of IP solutions are highly configurable “business
platforms as a service” that are embedded within our end-to-end service offerings and utilize integrated security,
data privacy practices, provider-neutral cloud approaches, and advanced AI capabilities to provide immediate
benefits to clients. We invest in, and deliver, market-leading IP to drive business outcomes within each of our target
industries. We also collaborate with clients to build and evolve IP-based solutions while enabling a higher degree of
flexibility and customization for their unique modernization and digitization needs.

Deep industry and technology expertise

CGI has long-standing and focused practices in all of its core industries, providing clients with a partner that is not only an
expert in IT, but also an expert in their respective industries. This combination of business knowledge and digital technology
expertise allows us to help our clients navigate complex challenges and focus on value creation. In the process, we evolve the
services and solutions we deliver within our targeted industries and provide thought leadership, blueprints, frameworks and
technical accelerators that help client evolve their ecosystems.

Our targeted industries include financial services (including banking and insurance), government (including space),
manufacturing, retail and distribution (including consumer services, transportation and logistics), communications and utilities
(including energy and media), and health (including life sciences). To help orchestrate our global posture across these
industries, our leaders regularly participate in cabinet meetings and councils to advance the strategies, services and solutions
we deliver to our clients.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis | For the years ended September 30, 2024 and 2023
© 2024 CGI Inc. Page 9
FISCAL 2024 RESULTS — 9

Helping clients leverage technology to its fullest

Macro trends such as supply chain reconfiguration, climate change and energy transition, and demographic shifts including
aging populations and talent shortages require new business models and ways of working. At the same time, technology is
reshaping our future and creating new opportunities.

Accelerating digitization provides the inclusive, economically vibrant, and sustainable future our clients’ customers and citizens
demand. Leveraging technology to its fullest helps clients to lead within their industries. Our end-to-end digital services,
industry and technology expertise, and operational excellence combine to help clients advance their holistic digital
transformation.

Through our proprietary Voice of Our Clients research, we analyzed the characteristics of leading digital organizations and
found these common attributes:

• Strategic alignment and business agility: Digital leaders have highly agile business models to address digitization
and are better at aligning and integrating business and IT operations to support and execute strategy.
• Digitization: They have mature strategies to leverage data and digitization to achieve business model resilience, are
less challenged by legacy systems, and extend their digitization strategy to their external ecosystem.
• Data, automation and AI: They adopt a holistic data strategy for the enterprise and ecosystem and have a higher
rate of being in progress with or having implemented both traditional and generative AI.
• Data privacy and protection: They produce greater results from their data privacy and protection strategy, which
also extends to their external ecosystem. Their cybersecurity programs are highly mature in terms of connected
assets.

Digital leaders across industries seek new ways to evolve their strategy and operational models and use technology and
information to improve how they operate, deliver products and services, and create value.

CGI helps clients adopt leading digital attributes and design, manage, protect and evolve their digital value chains to
accelerate business outcomes.

Quality processes

Our clients expect consistent service wherever and whenever they engage us. We have an outstanding track record of on time, within-budget delivery as a result of our commitment to excellence and our robust governance model - CGI's
Management Foundation.

Our Management Foundation provides a common business language, frameworks and practices for managing operations
consistently across the globe, driving continuous improvement. We also invest in rigorous quality and service delivery
standards including the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI)
certification programs, as well as a comprehensive Client Satisfaction Assessment Program, with signed client assessments,
to ensure high satisfaction on an ongoing basis.

1.2. VISION AND STRATEGY
CGI is unique compared to most companies, as our vision is based on a dream: “To create an environment in which we enjoy
working together and, as owners, contribute to building a company we can be proud of.” This dream has motivated us since
our founding in 1976 and drives our vision: “To be a global, world-class end-to-end IT and business consulting services leader
helping our clients succeed.”

In pursuing our dream and vision, CGI has been highly disciplined throughout its history in executing a Build and Buy profitable
growth strategy comprised of four pillars that combine profitable organic growth (Build) and accretive acquisitions (Buy):

Pillar 1: Win, renew and extend contracts

Pillar 2: New large managed IT and business process services contracts

These first two pillars relate to driving profitable organic growth through the pursuit of contracts with new and existing clients in
our targeted industries. As such, CGI engages with new and existing clients on four levers in our portfolio of end-to-end
services and solutions: Business and Strategic IT Consulting, Systems Integration, Managed Services and IP-based services.
Successes in these pillars reflect the strength of our end-to-end portfolio of capabilities, the depth of expertise of our
consultants in business and IT, client satisfaction in our delivery excellence, and the appreciation of the proximity model by our
clients, both existing and potential.

Pillar 3: Metro market acquisitions

Pillar 4: Large, transformational acquisitions

The third and fourth pillars focus on growth through accretive acquisitions. The third pillar for metro market acquisitions
complements the proximity model and helps to provide a fuller range of end-to-end services. The fourth pillar for large
transformational acquisitions helps to further expand our geographic footprint and reach the critical mass required to compete
for large managed IT and business process services contracts and broaden our client relationships. Both the third and fourth
pillars are supported by three levers. First, is our range of end-to-end services that allow us to consider a broad range of
acquisitions. A second lever is CGI's industry sector mix that helps us mirror the IT spend of each metro market over time. A
final lever across pillars three and four focuses on IP-based services firms that offer consulting services and managed services
that leverage their solutions.
CGI will continue to be a consolidator in the IT and business consulting services industry by being active across these four
pillars.

Executing our strategy

CGI’s strategy is executed through a business model that combines client proximity with an extensive global delivery network
to deliver the following benefits:

• Local relationships and accountability: We live and work near our clients to provide a high level of
responsiveness, partnership, and innovation. Our local consultants and professionals speak our clients' language,
understand their business and industries, and collaborate to meet their goals and advance their business.
• Global reach: Our local presence is complemented by an expansive global delivery network that ensures our
clients have 24/7 access to best-fit digital capabilities and resources to meet their end-to-end needs. In addition,
clients benefit from our unique combination of industry domain and technology expertise within our global delivery
model.
• Committed experts: Two of our key strategic goals are to be our clients’ partner and expert of choice. To achieve
this, we invest in developing and recruiting professionals with extensive industry, business and in-demand technology
expertise. Individually and collectively, each of our experts embody partnership behaviors in all they do by being
consultative and building trusted relationships with each other, our clients, shareholders, and within our communities.
In addition, a majority of consultants and professionals are also owners through our Share Purchase Plan, which,
combined with the Profit Participation Plan, provide an added level of commitment to the success of our clients.
• Everyday innovation: Our approach to client engagements is to continuously bring forward actionable insights that
support clients’ ROI-led digitization priorities. Through our client satisfaction program, we regularly assess the degree
to which clients find that CGI introduced applicable innovation to the engagements we deliver for them, including
through our ideas, processes, tools and offerings. We also scale innovative solutions co-created with clients through a
global governance model.
• Comprehensive quality processes: CGI’s investment in quality frameworks and rigorous client satisfaction
assessments has resulted in a consistent track record of on-time and within-budget project delivery. With regular
reviews of engagements and transparency at all levels, the Company ensures that client objectives and its own
Management’s Discussion and Analysis | For the years ended September 30, 2024 and 2023
© 2024 CGI Inc. Page 11
FISCAL 2024 RESULTS — 11
quality objectives are consistently followed at all times. This thorough process enables CGI to generate continuous
improvements for all stakeholders by applying corrective measures as soon as they are required.
• ESG strategy: At CGI, our ESG strategy is key to contributing to our strategic goal to be recognized by our
stakeholders as an engaged, ethical and responsible corporate citizen within our communities. Our commitments
align with the United Nations (UN) Global Compact’s 10 principles and the Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) and
we are recognized by leading international indices, including EcoVadis, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and Dow
Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI). We prioritize partnerships with clients, while also collaborating with educational
institutions and local organizations, on three global priorities: people, communities and climate. We demonstrate our
commitment to a sustainable world through projects delivered in collaboration with clients and through operating
practices, supply chain management, and community service activities.

1.3. COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT
As market dynamics and industry trends continue to increase client demand for ROI-led digitization, CGI is well-positioned to
serve as a digital partner and expert of choice. We work with clients across the globe to implement digital strategies, roadmaps
and solutions that help clients transform the customer/citizen experience, drive the launch of new products and services, and
deliver efficiencies and cost savings.
CGI’s competition is comprised of a variety of firms, from local companies providing specialized services and software,
government pure-plays to global business consulting and IT services providers. All of these players are competing to deliver
some or all of the services we provide.
 Many factors distinguish the industry leaders, including the following:
• Depth and breadth of industry and technology expertise;
• Local presence and strength of client relationships;
• Extensive and flexible global delivery network, including onshore, nearshore and offshore options;
• Breadth of digital IP solutions;
• Total cost of services and value delivered;
• Ability to deliver practical innovation for measurable results; and
• Consistent on-time, within-budget delivery everywhere clients operate.
CGI is one of the leaders in the industry with respect to the combination of these factors. CGI is one of few firms with the scale,
reach, and capabilities to meet clients’ enterprise business and technology needs