Letter to stakeholders
Dear shareholders and other stakeholders,
First and foremost, allow us to thank you for your continued support during the course of the year. It is your
support that underpins our success in navigating the challenges we face and delivering on our
commitments.
We have had a solid year on all counts in 2024; we were able to deliver on our promises on the basis of a
very strong financial performance. This would not have been possible without the dedication of our more
than 60,000 colleagues in 36 countries serving our customers worldwide, and we thank them for their hard
work and collaboration.
As we look back, 2024 was on the surface a relatively benign year for our businesses. However, when one
considers the underlying elements, it would be fair to conclude that we have witnessed the embedding of
longer-term economic and political trends.
In a short time, we have gone from an era of free trade to one of increasing protectionism, from a world at
peace to one with several geopolitical flashpoints with the potential of dragging the rest of the world into
chaos, and we have witnessed the weaponisation of climate politics despite the urgency of climate change
becoming ever more evident. The global election super cycle of 2024 has only reinforced these trends.
There are challenges ahead of us, both political and economic. However, as a European house, we take great
comfort in the consensus that Europe must forge its own path based on its own values and growth, in
particular inclusive growth. Our individual and collective prosperity depends on being able to work together
and move beyond our myopia.
From our perspective, growth in Europe rests on several core elements: a capital markets union to allow our
savings to fund European growth, simplification of regulations, energy security and cheap energy with a
focus on renewable sources, investments in technology, investments in our own defence and a level playing
field. We would like to emphasise the paramount importance of a level-playing field for all participants – it is
an essential ingredient for growth. The current anomaly that exists in and/or different interpretations of
European rules (e.g. on capital, liquidity and compensation) are a significant barrier to growth. While the
common-sense rationale is clear and self-evident, it will take sustained effort and pressure to achieve these
goals.
Contents ING at a glance Strategy, business model
and value creation
Our financial performance Our leadership and
corporate governance
Sustainability Statement Capital management Risk management Consolidated
financial statements
Parent company
financial statements
Other information
and appendices
ING Group Annual Report 2024 5
We believe that ING is well positioned to navigate these existing and emerging challenges and, indeed, to
continue to prosper and play our role in the consolidating banking landscape in Europe. Our confidence in
our ability to deliver rests on five distinct pillars.
First, ING’s universal banking model with a well-diversified portfolio of businesses solidly anchored in Europe
is an advantage, particularly when combined with our ability to deliver our services and products at scale,
digitally.
Second, our focus on retail and SME, which gives us a strong customer base, and a wholesale business
focused on facilitating trade and the transition to a low-carbon economy. Furthermore, we believe that given
our franchise in retail and SME, we are uniquely positioned to accelerate growth in wealth management
services.
Third, our focus on technology and our ability to deliver services digitally to our customers, albeit with a
human touch, and to scale these capabilities across markets. The culture of solving challenges by using
technology is well-embedded at ING.
Fourth, we have the necessary human capital to deliver on our promises. Needless to say, the development
of our people has been an area of singular focus at ING for many years; the benefits of these investments
are there for all to experience and see. It is important that we ensure a level playing field in terms of
compensation to attract and retain the best talent.
Fifth, we have the means to pursue our strategy in terms of capital generation, asset quality and the
robustness of our balance sheet.
On a separate but no less important note, we are and will remain committed to our sustainability and
diversity goals. At ING, we are driven by our sincere conviction that climate change is real, and we need to
play our role in the transition to a low-carbon economy. The same applies to diversity. We have always
believed in and genuinely subscribe to the notion that diversity of opinion enriches the decision-making
process.
In summary, we will stay true to our values and we are confident in our ability to navigate through these
challenges and deliver on our promises.
Thank you for your continued support.
Karl Guha Steven van Rijswijk
Chairman Chief executive officer