Foreword
In a world that was dominated by much unrest and war last year, the summer in Paris gave me a temporary feeling of
brotherhood. In the first week of August I visited a number of events during the Olympic Games. I saw sportmanslike
competition and cheered in the stands in an orange shirt for Femke Bol and her relay team and for the golden women's and
men's hockey teams.
For my retrospective on 2024, I thought back to that summer of sports. Apart from the inspiring entertainment that top-level
sports can offer people, the Olympic idea appeals to me greatly. The motto of the Games since their inception has been:
‘citius, altius, fortius’. If you want something, that is the idea, you have to get the best out of yourself. Try to be faster, jump
higher and become stronger.
In my opinion, this ambition also fits the year for which Rabobank is now presenting its report. At the beginning of 2024, we
set ourselves the goal of becoming an even better bank. We want to serve our customers even better and ensure that we can
make an even greater impact together with our customers.
When I first joined as chairman of the Managing Board, I referred to Rabobank as a schone bank, which in Flemish means
‘beautiful’. In the past year, I introduced a new Flemish word to define our ambitions: performant, meaning powerful,
efficient, and productive. When I arrived, I was deeply impressed by this socially driven cooperative organization. But I
couldn’t help noticing its dormant potential. I believe that we have more to offer. To achieve this, the word 'performant' is key
in my opinion: powerful, efficient, productive.
With that word in mind, we spent the past year working to make Rabobank an even better bank for our customers and
members. The organization’s plans and adjustments were driven by the goal of becoming even more customer-focused,
proactive, and responsive.
I'm proud of how quickly our colleagues adopted the necessary improvements and implemented them. In 2024, we
restructured our Dutch Retail and Wholesale & Rural operations, reviewing and simplifying them, and emphasizing our
customer-first mindset. It’s impressive to see how colleagues continued to grow amidst these changes, Employee
engagement remained consistently high all year, with a score of 87 across all four quarters. That deserves a big compliment.
Contents About Rabobank Strategy & Value Creation Financial Performance Risk Management Sustainability Statements Segment Reporting Corporate Governance Appendices Financial Statements
Annual Report 2024 - About Rabobank 7
From a business perspective, 2024 has been a very successful year, partly due to the still relatively high interest rates. In the
Netherlands, we strengthened our market leadership position in lending to SMEs and mortgages. We offered interest rate
discounts to homeowners with an A-rated energy label, provided they meet the eligibility criteria, aiming to encourage them
to make their houses more energy efficient. To date, more than 70,000 customers have taken advantage of the offer.
Meanwhile, deposits in our unique Rabo TijdslotSparen savings product grew from EUR 7.2 billion in 2023 to EUR 23.1 billion
in 2024.
Internationally, it was an impressive year on many fronts too. Loans to our Wholesale & Rural customers increased, driven
amongst others by growing demand for solutions to finance the energy transition. Performance at our vendor lease
subsidiary DLL remained strong thanks to higher volumes of new business.
Strong results give us, as a cooperative bank, even greater opportunities to make a meaningful impact on society. With
membersratherthan shareholders, we can use our profitsto support customers and membersin realizing their plans and ideas.
At Rabobank, we believe in putting words into action by actively fulfilling our social ambitions. Our new advertising
campaign, which launched in the Netherlands in the summer, highlights what makes us different from most large banks: we
are the only Dutch bank that has members instead of shareholders.
More than 2.3 million customers are member of Rabobank. With their membership, customers say 'yes' to social contribution,
working together on thingsthat you can't get done on your own and building social impact together with other members and
employees. As a cooperative bank, it is our nature to actively listen to members. Members can choose to actively participate.
For example, during last year’s annual Rabo Club Support program, 500,000 members voted on how to distribute
EUR 16 million among 33,000 clubs and associations.
On the final day of November, we hosted Onze Dag, or Our Day, for Rabobank’s most active members, those involved in our
members’ councils. Almost 1,200 people, including Queen Máxima, attended to discuss the importance of achieving financial
wellbeing and the bank’s other values. It was an incredibly successful day, and I was keenly aware of our unique contribution
to society, a contribution that can keep growing as long as we become an even better bank.
In 2024, we have tried to lay the new foundation to become an even better bank. With food, energy and financially healthy
living as focal points and sustainability and innovation included in everything we do. We are well on our way, but we are not
there yet. Performant is, as far as I am concerned, the code word to continue on the path we have taken. For now, I look back
with great satisfaction and forward with confidence. And I hope that you will do the same when reading this Annual Report.
Best regards,
Stefaan Decraene
Chairman Managing Board Rabobank